I am working through a book called "Systems From Scratch", which measures CPU and
operating-system performance on a small Linux machine. I need to buy one, or confirm
that something I already own will do. Search for what is on sale today and recommend
two or three options.

Where I am: [YOUR COUNTRY].   Budget: [YOUR BUDGET].

The book's reference machine is a Raspberry Pi 5. If Raspberry Pis are easy to get
where I am and within budget, say so and stop — I do not need alternatives for their
own sake. Everything below is for deciding whether something else will do.

HARD REQUIREMENTS. A machine that misses any of these is no use to me.

  - A 64-bit ARM (AArch64) or RISC-V (rv64imafdc) application processor running Linux.
    Not a microcontroller: it has to boot Debian, Ubuntu or similar from microSD, eMMC
    or SSD, and let me log in over SSH.

  - Working hardware performance counters under Linux `perf`:

        perf stat -e cycles,instructions -- true

    It must print real counts, not `<not supported>` and not zeroes.

  - Sampling as well as counting:

        perf record -o /dev/null -- true

    must work. Counting and sampling are different capabilities and some machines have
    the first without the second. One chapter is entirely about sampling.

  - At least 4 GB of RAM, and at least 4 cores — one chapter measures what cores cost
    each other.

WHAT I ALREADY KNOW, so please do not re-derive it or contradict it without evidence.

  - On ARM, counter-overflow interrupts are a standard PMU feature, so both counting
    and sampling generally work on a mainline kernel. Check anyway that the PMU node is
    present in the device tree for the board you recommend — some vendor kernels have
    shipped without it, and then `perf` silently sees no hardware.

  - RISC-V is much weaker here, and I have already investigated it. The SiFive U74
    (StarFive JH7110: VisionFive 2, Milk-V Mars, Star64) counts but has no
    counter-overflow support, so `perf record` cannot sample. SpacemiT K1/X60 boards
    (Banana Pi BPI-F3, Milk-V Jupiter) have trouble with the standard cycles and
    instructions events entirely, exposing vendor counters such as u_mode_cycle
    instead. The T-Head C910 (Lichee Pi 4A) does have overflow support but needs a
    vendor kernel. So do not recommend a RISC-V board unless I asked for one, and if I
    did, tell me which of counting and sampling actually works on it, and whether it
    needs CONFIG_RISCV_PMU_SBI and a firmware exposing the SBI PMU extension.

  - The OS image matters as much as the machine. Tell me WHICH distro image and kernel
    the working evidence came from, not only which board.

NICE TO HAVE, roughly in order

  - NVMe or a fast SSD. Builds and the file-system chapters are much less tedious.
  - A SIMD unit the compiler will actually target — NEON on ARM, RVV 1.0 on RISC-V.
    One chapter measures vectorisation.
  - A serial console header, for watching a boot that never reaches the network.
  - An in-order core. Not required, and the reference machine is out-of-order, but
    in-order cores make two of the microarchitecture chapters easier to read.

WHAT I WANT BACK

For each recommendation: the machine and its SoC; core type, count and clock; RAM
options; current price; a link to a retailer that will actually ship to where I am;
whether `perf` can count and whether it can sample, with a source for each of those two
claims specifically — a forum post, bug report, kernel log or article showing real
output is worth far more than a spec sheet.

Say plainly when you are unsure rather than guessing. I would rather buy nothing this
week than buy a machine that cannot count cycles.
